Git stuff.

git init

git checkout -b branchName

When to use -b

git status

git push origin branchName

git merge branchName -- Merge branchName with current branch. 


Adding changes to the repository :
Getting started:

1. Navigate to the branch you plan to start with. 
git checkout 
IE: Development branch, a friend's branch, anything.

2. Create a new branch 
git checkout -b development/clay

3. Edit or create files.

2. Stage them for commit by ADDING the changes.
specify specific files:
git add src/filename1.jpg src/filename2.txt
Specify folders :
git add src/*

Add all changes:
git add .

3. Commit changes.
git commit -m "Message about commit"

What if I forget -m and end up in vim?
**Take note of this!**
to exit vim, type :wq
: takes you out of insert mode.
w stands for save
q stande for quit

You can also cancel by using :q!


4. Pull changes from the parent branch -- This is to avoid merge conflicts when you are trying to pull your branch into the existing one!!
-> git pull origin someBranch
- Fetches data AND merges it into your current branch.

git fetch
Fetching data updates local repositories with online data.

git fetch -a will fetch ALL remote branch data.
- This is useful when you want to go to someone else's branch.
git fetch -a
git checkout my-friends-branch
-> You don't have to create this branch since it already exists & you just fetched it!
Sometimes this doesn't work. If you have a local branch with the same name that is not connected to the online branch, use:
git checkout origin/my-friends-branch




pull = get fetch + get merge


4. Push to online URL.

Updating online repository



GIT - adding files.
Show how to add just a folder.
Show how to add all available new files.

Advanced topics:
- What if it won't let me?

Possible Circumstances: 
1. Your branch has untracked files.
Solution: 
1. Remove untracked files manually
2. Commit untracked files to a different branch first.
3. Hard reset branch to your last commit (Git will remove untracked files)